.TH showstats 7 "October 2006" BUGLE "User manual"
.SH NAME
showstats \- render statistics over the display
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
filterset showstats
{
    show "statistic1"
    show "statistic2"
    graph "statistic3"
}
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B showstats
filter-set displays statistics gathered by other filter-sets over the
rendered display. These filter-sets must be listed in the chain ahead
of
.BR showstats .
Statistics can be displayed either as text or as graphs.

The statistics to display are selected by the
.B show
and
.B graph
pseudo-variables in the
.B filters
file. These reference statistics that are defined in
.BR $HOME/.bugle/statistics .
Most users should just copy this file from the example in the BuGLe
documentation; it lists most of the statistics that one might wish to
use.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B time
The time interval between updating the statistics display.
.TP
.B key_accumulate
By default, statistics are averaged over the time interval specified
above, making them approximately instantaneous rates. Pressing this
key will cause the display to instead show the average from the time
the key was pressed until the current moment.
.TP
.B key_unaccumulate
This key restores the default behaviour of showing instantaneous
rate.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B $HOME/.bugle/statistics
Formulae and metadata for statistics
.SH AUTHOR
.B gldb
and the
.B bugle
library are written and maintained by Bruce Merry
<bmerry@users.sourceforge.net>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bugle (3),
.BR bugle-stats_basic (3),
.BR bugle-stats_primitives (3),
.BR bugle-stats_fragments (3),
.BR bugle-stats_nv (3),
.BR bugle-showstats (3)
