.TH eps 7 "May 2006" BUGLE "User manual"
.SH NAME
eps \- takes vector-graphic screenshots
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
filterset eps
{
    filename "bugle.eps"
    key_eps "C-A-S-S"
    title "My screenshot"
    bsp "no"
    buffer "1000000"
}
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This filterset is similar to the screenshot filter-set, but instead of
a raster image, it produces a vector graphic suitable for printing.
This is achieved through
.BR gl2ps (3),
which is incorporated into
.BR bugle .
The supported formats are Postscript, Encapsulated Postscript (EPS),
Portable Document Format (PDF) and Scalable Vector Graphic (SVG).

The capturing process utilises the OpenGL feedback buffer (see
.BR glFeedbackBuffer (3)),
which creates some inherent limitations. No per-fragment effects (such
as texturing or bitmap rendering) are captured, not will vertex
programs work correctly. Essentially, the colour of each vertex must be
either directly specified or determined by the OpenGL lighting model.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B filename
The file to which the screenshot will be written. The extension is used
to determine the file format. Valid extensions are
.BR ps ,
.BR eps ,
.B pdf
and
.BR svg .
.TP
.B key_eps
The key-press which triggers the snapshot.
.TP
.B title
This is a string that is embedded in Postscript and EPS files.
.TP
.B bsp
If this boolean is enabled, the depth sorting is done with a BSP tree
to give accurate results. This may be necessary to get correct results
in scenes with complex occlusion, but it is much slower.
.TP
.B buffer
The number of entries to allocate for the feedback buffer. If this is
too low, the feedback buffer will overflow and the screenshot will
fail. The default should be enough for most simple scenes, but for
highly complex scenes it may be necessary to create a larger buffer.
.SH AUTHOR
.B gldb
and the
.B bugle
library are written and maintained by Bruce Merry
<bmerry@users.sourceforge.net>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bugle (3),
.BR glFeedbackBuffer (3)
