.TH trace 7 "May 2007" BUGLE "User manual"
.SH NAME
trace \- record a log of all OpenGL calls made
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
filterset trace
filterset log
filterset error
.SH DESCRIPTION
This filter-set provides a log of the OpenGL calls made. For each call,
the function name, the parameters and the return value (if any) are
recorded. Where appropriate, symbolic names are shown for
.B GLenum
parameters, and pointers are followed to show the correct number of
elements.
.SH OPTIONS
There are no options to control this filter-set. All logging is done
through the
.B log
filter-set, and options such as filename and log format can be modified
there.
.SH OUTPUT
Here is a sample log output
.IP
.nf
[INFO] trace.call: glClear(GL_COLOR_BUFFER_BIT | GL_DEPTH_BUFFER_BIT)
[INFO] trace.call: glLoadMatrixd(0xbfffe610 -> { { 0, -0.29661, 1.22295, 0 }, { 1.22295, 0, 0, 0 }, { 0, 1.18644, 0.305739, 0 }, { 0.037888, 1.61781, -1.52576, 1 } })
[INFO] trace.call: glActiveTextureARB(GL_TEXTURE0)
[INFO] trace.call: glTexEnvfv(GL_TEXTURE_ENV, GL_TEXTURE_ENV_COLOR, 0xbfffe5d0 -> { 0.778524, 0.778524, 0.569631, 0 })
.fi
.SH BUGS
Some enumerants share values, so you may see a different symbolic name
in the log than in your source code. It is believed that this should
be limited to cases where extensions share a value for semanticly
equivalent symbols; if you find a case where this is not true, please
inform the author.

Because the filter-set examines arguments and follows pointers, it is
possible to crash it by passing invalid values, particularly invalid
pointers.
.SH BACKWARDS COMPATIBILITY
In previous versions, the
.B trace
filter-set has also reported OpenGL errors to the log. This is now
handled by the
.B showerror
filter-set.
.SH AUTHOR
.B gldb
and the
.B bugle
library are written and maintained by Bruce Merry
<bmerry@users.sourceforge.net>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bugle (3),
.BR bugle-log (3),
.BR bugle-showerror (3)
