.TH extoverride 7 "May 2007" BUGLE "User manual"
.SH NAME
extoverride \- hide OpenGL extensions from an application
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
filterset extoverride
{
    version "1.5"
    disable "all"
    enable "GL_ARB_multitexture"
    enable "GL_ARB_imaging"
}
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B extoverride
filter-set modifies the OpenGL version and extension strings to hide
driver capabilities from the application. The primary use is to test an
application to ensure that it works correctly on drivers that do not
offer these capabilities.

Apart from modifying these strings, a warning is printed to the log if
any function from one of these extensions is called.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B version
Set the version string to return, provided that it is smaller
(lexicographically) than the true version string.
.TP
.B disable """all"""
By default, extensions are exposed unless explicitly disabled. This
option reverses the behaviour to hide all extensions that are not
explicitly enabled.
.TP
.BI "disable " extension
Hides the named extension from the application. A warning is printed if
the extension was not known at the time BuGLe was compiled; in this
case it will still be hidden, but there will not be any warning if it
is used anyway.
.TP
.BI "enable " extension
Like the 
.B disable
directive, but enables an extension when the default is disabled.
.SH BUGS
Warnings are only printed if 
.I functions 
from the disabled extensions are called. At present, no warning will be
printed if tokens from those extensions are passed (which is difficult
to determine, since multiple tokens may share the same numeric value).
Furthermore, some extensions alter semantics without explicit functions
or tokens, such as
.BR GL_ARB_texture_non_power_of_two ";"
no warnings are issued if these extensions are used.

Also note that extension loader libraries may interfere with this
warning mechanism. For example,
.B GLee
uses wrappers that cause illegal function calls to be silently ignored.
.SH AUTHOR
.B gldb
and the
.B bugle
library are written and maintained by Bruce Merry
<bmerry@users.sourceforge.net>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bugle (3),
.BR bugle-log (7), 
.BR bugle-showextensions (7)
