.TH stats 7 "May 2006" BUGLE "User manual"
.SH NAME
stats \- gather frame-rate and other information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
filterset stats
{
    fragments "yes"
    triangles "yes"
}
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
This filter-set gathers performance statistics on an OpenGL application
(currently, frame-rate, fragment count and triangle count). It does not
directly display the results, but it can be combined with either the
.B log
filter-set for logging to file or the
.B showstats
filter-set for logging to screen.

Note that the fragment and triangle count both introduce significant
overhead, and should be disabled if an accurate measurement of
frame-rate is desired.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B fragments
This is a boolean, which may be enabled to get a count of fragments.
This is implemented in terms of the
.B GL_ARB_occlusion_query
extension to OpenGL (included in OpenGL 1.5). Refer to the
specification for details of what constitutes a fragment. Note that
your OpenGL driver must support this extension for the counting to
work.
.TP
.B triangles
This is a boolean, which may be enabled to get a count of triangles
rendered. Other polygonal primitives (such as quads) are counted as the
number of triangles necessary to make them up.
.
.SH BUGS
Applications that themselves use occlusion queries will disable
fragment counting, and possibly fail to operate correctly. While some
attempt has been made to handle display lists correctly, complicated
nested display list usage could easily lead to incorrect triangle
counts. In addition, the
.B GL_NV_primitive_restart
extension is not taken into account.
.SH AUTHOR
.B gldb
and the
.B bugle
library are written and maintained by Bruce Merry
<bmerry@users.sourceforge.net>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bugle (3),
.BR bugle-log (7),
.BR bugle-showstats (7)
